README.md, before:

# IDVA GDrive Microservice
The IDVA GDrive microservice is a Python Fast API
application that interfaces IDVA applications to the Google Drive API.

## Building Locally

### Pre-requisites
Make sure you have the following installed if you intend to build the project locally.
- [Python 3.11](https://www.python.org/)
- [CloudFoundry CLI](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/cf-cli/)

### Development Setup
To set up your environment, run the following commands (or the equivalent
commands if not using a bash-like terminal):
```shell
# Clone the project
git clone https://github.com/GSA-TTS/identity-idva-gdrive
cd identity-idva-gdrive

# Set up Python virtual environment
python3.11 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
# .venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1 on Windows

# Install dependencies and pre-commit hooks
python -m pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
pre-commit install

The project can be ran locally with:
```shell
uvicorn gdrive.main:app
```

### Running the application
After completing [development setup](#development-setup) application locally with:
```shell
python -m pytest
```

### API Endpoints


### Upload file
Upload a single file

`POST /upload`

```
Query parameters:
id: <parent interaciton id>
filename: <see codenames>
base64: <is base 64>
```

```
Request body:
<file data>
```

### Delete file
Upload a single file

`DELETE /upload`

```
Query parameters:
filename: <see codenames>
```


#### Analytics Export
Exports flow analytics from single interaction id.

`POST /export`

```
Query parameters:
interactionId: <parent flow interaciton id>
```


#### Analytics + Survey Response Export
Exports analytics in bulk that are associated with a survey response. Also uploads
participant data to google spread sheet.

`POST /survey-export`

```
Request body:
{
  "surveyId": str
  "responseId": str
  "participant": {
    "first": str
    "last": str
    "email": str
    "time": str
  }
}
```


### Deploying to Cloud.gov during development
All deployments require having the correct Cloud.gov credentials in place. If
you haven't already, visit [Cloud.gov](https://cloud.gov) and set up your
account and CLI.

*manifest.yml* file contains the deployment configuration for cloud.gov, and expects
a vars.yaml file that includes runtime variables referenced. For info, see
[cloud foundry manifest files reference](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/manifest-attributes.html)

Running the following `cf` command will deploy the application to cloud.gov
```shell
cf push --vars-file vars.yaml \
  --var ENVIRONMENT=<env>
```

## Public domain

This project is in the worldwide [public domain](LICENSE.md). As stated in
[CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md):

> This project is in the public domain within the United States, and copyright
and related rights in the work worldwide are waived through the
[CC0 1.0 Universal public domain dedication](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
>
> All contributions to this project will be released under the CC0 dedication.
By submitting a pull request, you are agreeing to comply with this waiver of
copyright interest.

Commit message:

Adding participant demographic data from qualtrix response to raw com… (#61)
* Adding participant demographic data from qualtrix response to raw completions spreadsheet

* Moving response status check out of get_qualtrics_response

* Missed updating survey-export endpoint documentation

* Another comment

README.md, after:

# IDVA GDrive Microservice
The IDVA GDrive microservice is a Python Fast API
application that interfaces IDVA applications to the Google Drive API.

## Building Locally

### Pre-requisites
Make sure you have the following installed if you intend to build the project locally.
- [Python 3.11](https://www.python.org/)
- [CloudFoundry CLI](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/cf-cli/)

### Development Setup
To set up your environment, run the following commands (or the equivalent
commands if not using a bash-like terminal):
```shell
# Clone the project
git clone https://github.com/GSA-TTS/identity-idva-gdrive
cd identity-idva-gdrive

# Set up Python virtual environment
python3.11 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
# .venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1 on Windows

# Install dependencies and pre-commit hooks
python -m pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
pre-commit install

The project can be ran locally with:
```shell
uvicorn gdrive.main:app
```

### Running the application
After completing [development setup](#development-setup) application locally with:
```shell
python -m pytest
```

### API Endpoints


### Upload file
Upload a single file

`POST /upload`

```
Query parameters:
id: <parent interaciton id>
filename: <see codenames>
base64: <is base 64>
```

```
Request body:
<file data>
```

### Delete file
Upload a single file

`DELETE /upload`

```
Query parameters:
filename: <see codenames>
```


#### Analytics Export
Exports flow analytics from single interaction id.

`POST /export`

```
Query parameters:
interactionId: <parent flow interaciton id>
```


#### Analytics + Survey Response Export
Exports analytics in bulk that are associated with a survey response. Also uploads
participant data to google spread sheet. Data provided in the request body, as well
as demographic data collected from Qualtrix api will be uploaded. Only responses that 
have a Complete status (user has completed the survey) will be uploaded to the google spead sheet. 

`POST /survey-export`

```
Request body:
{
  "surveyId": str
  "responseId": str
  "participant": {
    "first": str
    "last": str
    "email": str
    "time": str
  }
}
```


### Deploying to Cloud.gov during development
All deployments require having the correct Cloud.gov credentials in place. If
you haven't already, visit [Cloud.gov](https://cloud.gov) and set up your
account and CLI.

*manifest.yml* file contains the deployment configuration for cloud.gov, and expects
a vars.yaml file that includes runtime variables referenced. For info, see
[cloud foundry manifest files reference](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/manifest-attributes.html)

Running the following `cf` command will deploy the application to cloud.gov
```shell
cf push --vars-file vars.yaml \
  --var ENVIRONMENT=<env>
```

## Public domain

This project is in the worldwide [public domain](LICENSE.md). As stated in
[CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md):

> This project is in the public domain within the United States, and copyright
and related rights in the work worldwide are waived through the
[CC0 1.0 Universal public domain dedication](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
>
> All contributions to this project will be released under the CC0 dedication.
By submitting a pull request, you are agreeing to comply with this waiver of
copyright interest.
